Docs 8021 update memory usage screenshots hn (#351)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/alerts-on-runtime-manager.adoc

= Alerts
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

image:logo-cloud-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

> You can set up alerts, which send email notifications when application or server events occur. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up alerts to send email notifications when application or server events occur. 
```

> Runtime Manager includes several standard alert types that trigger notifications for common events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime Manager includes several standard alert types that trigger notifications for common events such as:
```
Without the "such as," I thought what was coming was a list of the several standard alert types.

> * An application exceeds a specific number of events processed within a timeframe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An application exceeds a specific number of events processed within a given timeframe.
```
provided, specified....

> * A deployment completes with success or failure.

Reviewer: Aren't these the only two choices? Are we pointing out even a successful deployment results in an alert?
```suggestion
* A deployment is complete, either successfully or not. 
```

Author: Success is a condition, yes.

> * CloudHub encounters a problem with the worker on an application via the worker monitoring system.

Reviewer: At first I wondered what does "via the worker monitoring system" modify:
```suggestion
* The worker monitoring system notifies CloudHub about a problem with the worker on an application.
```
"the worker" or "a" worker?

* A server is disconnected or deleted.

You can also create custom alerts for applications deployed to CloudHub.
Custom alerts are triggered when your application sends notifications to the Runtime Manager console
using Anypoint Connector for CloudHub (CloudHub Connector).
See xref:custom-application-alerts.adoc[Custom Application Alerts] for information.

== Rate Limits on Alerts

Anypoint Platform enforces rate limits that determine how often an alert is triggered and prevent excessive emails from being sent.
The following factors determine the rate limit:

* CloudHub
+
When using CloudHub Connector to trigger notifications and alerts,
the rate limit is five custom application alerts per IP address, per second.
This limit is enforced by IP address. 
If an application uses multiple workers, this limit is multiplied by the number of workers
assigned to the application.
+
Custom notifications that trigger emails are also subject to the rate limit on email notifications.
* Alert emails
+
For both standard and custom alerts, the rate limit is one alert notification email sent every 2.5 seconds.

> This limit is enforced by a combination of organization, environment, alert (name/ID), and resource

Reviewer: Replace / with "or" or "and."
GLOBAL

(application, server, server group, or cluster).

== Create an Alert

To create an alert:

. In Runtime Manager, click *Alerts* in the left navigation pane.
+
** If no alerts are set up, you see:
+
.The arrow shows the *Create your first alert* option.
image::alerts-no-alerts.png[Alerts page with no alerts set up]
** If your account already has associated alerts, you see:
+
.The arrow shows the blue plus (*+*) icon on the *Alerts* page.
image::alerts-create-additional-alert.png[Alerts page with blue plus (+) icon]

. Click the blue plus (*+*) icon to create an alert.
+
image::alerts-create-alert.png[Create an Alert page]

> . Fill in the required fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Complete the required fields:
```
(translation)

* *Name*
+
Unique and meaningful name for the alert

> * *Severity Level*

Reviewer: Is "level" init capped in the UI? Because later I see "Application type."

Author: Yes. See screenshots.

Author: Oops, nope. The capitalization is all over the place on this page.

+

> The severity level for the alert: critical, warning, or info

Reviewer: parallelism
```suggestion
Severity of the alert: `critical`, `warning`, or `info`
```

* *Source*
+
The source of the alert: applications or servers
+
This field appears only if your Anypoint Platform account supports local servers.

> * *Application type* 

Reviewer: See earlier question about cap

Author: Yep.

Author: Correct

+
When the source is *Applications*, applications deployed to either CloudHub or local servers
+
You can't create an alert that applies to both applications deployed to CloudHub and local servers.
You must create separate alerts for each deployment type.
+

> * *Server type*

Reviewer: ditto

Author: Correct

+
When the source is *Servers*, the type of server: single server, server group, or cluster.
+
If your servers aren't available on your menu, see xref:managing-servers.adoc[Servers, Server Groups, and Clusters].
* *Applications* or *Servers*
+
The application or server to apply the alert to
* *Condition*
+
The condition that triggers the alert
+
The available options depend on whether your alert is linked to a server,
an application running on CloudHub, or an application running locally.
Some conditions require additional data.
See <<Alert Conditions>>.
* *Subject*
+

> The subject of the alert email to send when the alert is triggered.

Reviewer: no period
```suggestion
The subject of the alert email to send when the alert is triggered
```

+
The subject can include variables.
See <<Alert Properties>>.
* *Message*
+
The body text for the email to send when the alert is triggered.
The message body can include variables.
See <<Alert Properties>>.
* *Recipients*
+
The recipients of the alert email
+
You can select platform users or enter any email address.

. Click *Create Alert*.

> When an event that meets an alert condition occurs, an email like the following is sent:

Reviewer: passive voice
```suggestion
When an event that meets an alert condition occurs, Runtime Manager sends an email similar to the following:
```

image::alerts-alert-email.png[Anypoint Platform Alert Notification email]

== Alert Conditions

You can select different conditions depending on the alert source.
Some conditions are simple success or failure notifications, such as `Deployment success`.
Some more complex conditions require that you define parameters that appear as new fields in the form.

=== Conditions for Applications Deployed to CloudHub 

image:logo-cloud-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

For applications deployed to CloudHub, the following alert conditions apply:

> CPU usage - Cloudhub::

Reviewer: Is this the actual name or displayed condition?
I ask only because we want to avoid using space-hyphen-space anywhere in our text.
GLOBAL in this list; I won't mark again.

Author: It's as it appears in the UI - see screenshot.

+
--

> The CPU usage of the CloudHub workers that run the application reaches a capacity threshold in a specified period.

Reviewer: Do we need to include the specified period part or is the included in a capacity threshold?
```suggestion
The CPU usage of the CloudHub workers that run the application reaches the capacity threshold.
```
Does "in a specified period" refer to the usage or the threshold?
Or am I overthinking this...?

Author: There are 2 parameters - threshold and time.

image::alerts-conditions-apps-cpu.png[CPU usage - Cloudhub]

To enable this condition, specify the capacity threshold and duration that triggers the alert.
--

Custom application alert::
+
--
The custom notification contains the specified text.

image::alerts-conditions-custom.png[Custom application alerts]

To enable this condition, specify the notification text from the CloudHub Connector
in your Mule application.

> When the text in one of the notifications contains the string, an alert is sent.

Reviewer: clarify reference
```suggestion
When the text in one of the notifications matches your specification, an alert is sent.
```

--

The following alerts for applications deployed to CloudHub require no additional parameters:

* Deployment failed
* Deployment success
* Secure data gateway connected
* Secure data gateway disconnected
* Worker not responding

=== Conditions for Applications Deployed to Local Servers 

image:logo-cloud-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

For applications deployed to local servers, the following alert conditions apply:

Number of errors::
+
--
The number of errors in one minute reaches a threshold.

image::alerts-conditions-number-errors.png[Number of errors]

To enable this condition, specify the number of errors per minute that triggers the alert.

--

Number of Mule messages::
+
--

> The number of Mule messages, since the application started, reaches the specified limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of Mule messages since the application started reaches the specified limit.
```
The parenthetical is actually not; it is a required part of the subject.

image:logo-hybrid-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

The available alert events depend on the server type.
The following alerts are available for all target types (servers and nodes in server groups and clusters):

Server CPU usage::
+
--
The CPU usage of the servers that run the application reaches a capacity threshold in a specified period.

image::alerts-conditions-servers-cpu.png[Server CPU usage alert condition]

To enable this condition, specify the CPU usage threshold and duration that triggers the alert.
--

Server Load average::
+
--
The average processing load of the server is above or below a threshold in a specified period.

image::alerts-conditions-servers-load-avg.png[Server load average alert condition]

To enable this condition, specify the load threshold and duration that triggers the alert.

[NOTE]

> Windows environments don't provide this information, so this metric isn't available on Windows environments.

Reviewer: on an environment?
```suggestion
Windows environments don't provide this information, so this metric isn't available in Windows environments.
```

--

Server Memory usage::
+
--
The total memory usage (in MB) on the server is above or below a threshold in a specified period.

image::alerts-conditions-servers-memory.png[Server memory usage alert condition]

To enable this condition, specify the memory usage threshold and duration that triggers the alert.
--

Server Thread count::
+
--

> The thread count on the JVM is above or below a threshold for a specified period.

Reviewer: Can a threshold include aboves AND belows? Is it a numerical span rather than just one number? And if just one number, why bother with a "threshold" when there is just one value the count can be?

image::alerts-conditions-servers-thread-count.png[Server thread count alert condition]

To enable this condition, specify the thread count threshold and duration that triggers the alert.
--

> The following alerts vary according to the target type (server, server groups, or clusters),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following alerts vary according to the target type (server, server groups, or clusters)
```

Servers::
+
--
* *Agent version changed*
* *Runtime version changed*
* *Server connected*
* *Server deleted*
* *Server disconnected*
--

Server Groups::
+
--
* *Server Group connected*
* *Server Group deleted*
* *Server Group disconnected*
* *Server Group's node connected*
* *Server Group's node disconnected*
* *Server added to Server Group*
* *Server removed from Server Group*
--

Clusters::
+
--

* *Cluster connected*
* *Cluster deleted*
* *Cluster disconnected*
* *Cluster presents visibility issues*
* *Cluster's node connected*
* *Cluster's node disconnected*
* *Server added to Cluster*
* *Server removed from Cluster*
--

== Alert Properties

You can use the following properties in the alert email *Subject* and *Message* fields:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Variable |Description |Applicable Alerts

|`${app}` |Name of the application triggering the alert |All app alerts
|`${currentValue}` |Current value of metric that triggers the alert |Conditional
|`${message}` |Message from the notification triggering the alert |Custom Application Notification
|`${name}` |Name of the target (server, server group, or cluster) triggering the alert |All server alerts

> |`${operator}` | An operator, such as: < > = |Conditional

Reviewer: Not clear how many operators this is, or whether we need the colon....
```suggestion
|`${operator}` | An operator, such as `< > =` |Conditional
```

> |`${period}` |Timeframe over which to measure |Conditional

Reviewer: consistency
```suggestion
|`${period}` |Period of time over which to measure |Conditional
```

> |`${periodTimeUnit}` |Period time unit |Conditional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`${periodTimeUnit}` |Period of time unit |Conditional
```

|`${priority}` |Priority of the notification triggering the alert |Custom Application Notification

> |`${resource}` | Name of the resource triggering the alert, such as server or app | All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`${resource}` | Name of the resource triggering the alert, such as `server` or `app` | All
```

|`${severity}` | Severity of the alert |All

> |`${state}` | State of the resource triggering the alert, such as Running or Disconnected| All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`${state}` | State of the resource triggering the alert, such as `Running` or `Disconnected`| All
```

> |`${threshold}` |Count over the timeframe which triggers the alert |Conditional

Reviewer: consistency
```suggestion
|`${threshold}` |Count over the period of time that triggers the alert |Conditional
```

|`${value}` | A value associated with an element | Conditional

|===

== Access Alerts

You can access alerts in Runtime Manager in several ways.

To display all the alerts associated with your account, click *Alerts* in the left navigation pane:

.The arrow shows the *Alerts* menu.
image::alerts-view-all-alerts-tab.png[Alerts menu]

From this page, you can:

* Create an alert.
* Search for a string in an alert name.
* Filter the displayed alerts by source, condition, severity, or status.

> * Click an alert name to change its settings.

Reviewer: Remove periods

* Select an alert to display its status, settings, and history in the details pane:
+
.The arrow shows the alert history in the details pane.
image::alerts-history.png[Alert history in the details pane]

To display the alerts associated with an application or server:

. In the *Applications* or *Servers* list, click the *Status* column for the application or server.
. Click the *View Associated Alerts* link in the details pane:
+
.The arrow shows the *View Associated Alerts* link in the details pane.
image::alerts-view-details-pane.png[View Associated Alerts link in the details pane]

To display the alert history for an application or server:

. In the *Applications* or *Servers* list, click the application or server name.
. Click *Settings* in the left navigation pane.

> . Click the *Alerts History* tab:

Reviewer 2: I believe Alerts History tab only shows for applications deployed to local servers if we want to clarify that.

Author: Good point! Thanks, @MichelleZMY.
